.\"	$OpenBSD: mdoc.template,v 1.6 2001/02/03 08:22:44 niklas Exp $
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd August 14, 2002
.Dt NYLON 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nylon
.Nd a lightweight and highly configurable proxy server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.\" For a program:  program [-abc] file ...
.Nm nylon
.Op Fl h 
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl 4
.Op Fl 5
.Op Fl a Ar list
.Op Fl d Ar list
.Op Fl m Ar addr
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl i Ar ip/if
.Op Fl I Ar ip/if
.Op Fl P Ar file
.Op Fl c Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a proxy server.  This version supports SOCKS 4 and SOCKS 5
protocols, as well as a mirror mode.
.Nm
is fully configurable, and can be configured from either the command
line or a provided configuration file.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds_imagedir
.It Fl h
Displays help.
.It Fl v
Increases the verbosity level (can be specified multiple times).
.It Fl V
Prints version.
.It Fl f
Runs
.Nm
in the foreground and prints all output to the terminal.
.It Fl s
Forces all output to syslog.
.It Fl n
Shows all network addresses as numbers.
.It Fl 4
Disables SOCKS4 support
.It Fl 5
Disables SOCKS5 support
.It Fl a Ar list
Sets the host allow list to 
.Ar list .
.It Fl d Ar list
Sets the host deny list to 
.Ar list .
.It Fl m Ar addr
Runs 
.Nm
in mirror mode.  In this mode, any proxy protocol negotiations are
disregarded, and the address provided is simply mirrored.
.Ar addr
is in "host:port" format and specifies the target machine and port to
mirror.  If no local binding port is specified (via the
.Cm p
switch, or in the configuration file),
.Nm
will bind to a local port matching the remote port specified.
.It Fl p Ar port
Bind server to port
.Ar port .
By default, 
.Nm 
will bind to the "socks" port (1080).
.It Fl i Ar ip/if
Bind server to the interface or address
.Ar ip/if .
.It Fl I Ar ip/if
Make outgoing connections through the interface or address
.Ar ip/if .
.It Fl P Ar file
Specify PID file 
.Ar file .
By default, 
.Ar /var/run/nylon.pid 
is used.
.It Fl c Ar file
Specify configuration file
.Ar file .
.El
.Pp
The configuration file can be used as a replacement for the command line
options.  Please see the provided file
.Ar nylon.conf
for more information.
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.Sh ACCESS
Access to the services provided by 
.Nm
are governed by the the host
.Ar allow
and
.Ar deny
lists.  These are lists composed of hosts and networks.  Hosts can be
specified either by their hostname, or their IP address.  Networks are
specified by a network address and mask in the form "address/bits",
where "bits" specifies how many bits of the address are to be used to
represent the network mask.
.Pp
Given an address, whether access is given or not is determined as
such.  If the address matches any address in the 
.Ar deny
list, access is explicitly denied.  If the address matches any address
in the
.Ar allow 
list, access is explititly allowed, unless it is also matched in the
.Ar deny
list.  If the 
.Ar deny
list is empty, only addresses in the 
.Ar allow
list are allowed.  If the 
.Ar allow
list is empty, all addresses, except for those that are in the 
.Ar deny
list, are allowed
.Pp
By default, the 
.Ar allow
list is set to "localhost" and the 
.Ar deny
list set to "" (empty).
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Cm nylon -i fxp1 -a \&"localhost trusted.com 10.0.0.0/24\&" -m cnn.com:http
.Pp
Mirrors the 
.Ar http
service on 
.Ar cnn.com
onto the local http port.
Only hosts coming from 
.Ar localhost ,
.Ar trusted.com
and the network
.Ar 10.0.0.0/24
are allowed to use this mirroring service.  Additionally, the server
binds to the IP address belonging to the ethernet interface
.Ar fxp1 .
.Pp
.Cm nylon -f -a \&"\&" -d \&"nasty.com intruders.com\&" -vvvvvv
.Pp
Runs
.Nm
as a SOCKS server in the foreground.  All hosts except for 
.Ar nasty.com
and
.Ar intruders.com
are allowed to access the service.
.Nm
runs with a high verbosity level.
.\" This next request is for sections 2 and 3 function return values only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" The next request is for sections 2 and 3 error and signal handling only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" This next request is for section 4 only.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 6, 7 & 8 only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" .Sh FILES
.\".Sh SEE ALSO
.\".Xr nylon.conf 4
.\" .Sh COMPATIBILITY
.Sh STANDARDS
The 
.Nm
server complies with the SOCKS5 (RFC 1928) and SOCKS4 specifications.
.Sh ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This product includes software developed by Ericsson Radio Systems.
.Pp
This product includes software developed by the University of
California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
software has been developed by Marius Aamodt Eriksen
.Aq marius@monkey.org .
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh BUGS
.\"Please report any bugs to Marius Aamodt Eriksen 
.\".Aq marius@monkey.org .
.\" .Sh CAVEATS

\" XXX explain algorithm for allow/deny hosts
